ingress controller and dns mgt (#49752)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/creating-a-custom-ingress-controller.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *ingress-controller-dnsmgt.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="creating-a-custom-ingress-controller_{context}"]
= Creating a custom Ingress Controller with `Unmanaged` DNS management policy

> As a cluster administrator, you can create a custom Ingress Controller with `Unmanaged` DNS management policy.

Author: good catch

> As a cluster administrator, you can create a custom Ingress Controller with the `Unmanaged` DNS management policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, you can create a new, custom Ingress Controller with the `Unmanaged` DNS management policy.
```

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

> * A DNS record is created and published.

Reviewer: Technically, the 3rd bullet is not a prerequisite.

.Procedure

> . Create a custom resource (CR) file named `sample-ingress.yaml` containing the following:

Reviewer: Can you just edit the existing,default ingress controller instead of creating a second one?

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  name: <name> <1>
spec:
  domain: <domain> <2>
  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: LoadBalancerService
    loadBalancer:
      scope: External <3>
      dnsManagementPolicy: Unmanaged <4>
----
<1> Replace `<name>` with a name for the `IngressController` object.
<2> Specify the `domain` based on the DNS record that was created as a prerequisite.

> <3> Specify a value of `External` to use an external load balancer.

Author: @thejasn could you please help with this query?

> <3> Specify a value of `External` to use an external load balancer.

Author: my understanding is that its a key value pair in a yaml file  key=scope value= External or Internal ( I am not sure if there are other values).

> <3> Specify a value of `External` to use an external load balancer.

Reviewer 2: `External` is the value here for the `scope` field. Possible values are `Internal` and `External`. Maybe we re-word it as 
> Specify `scope` as `External` to expose the load balancer externally.

<4> `dnsManagementPolicy` indicates if the Ingress Controller is managing the lifecycle of the wildcard DNS record associated with the load balancer.

> The valid values are `Managed` and `Unmanaged`. By default , the value is `Managed`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The valid values are `Managed` and `Unmanaged`. The default value is `Managed`. 
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *ingress-controller-dnsmgt.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="creating-a-custom-ingress-controller_{context}"]
= Creating a custom Ingress Controller

> As a cluster administrator, you can create a custom Ingress Controller to manage DNS record lifecycle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, you can create a custom Ingress Controller with `Unmanaged` DNS management policy.
```

Reviewer 2: I think it is better for this section to explicitly target "Creating a custom ingress controller with `Unmanaged` DNS management policy".

.Prerequisites

* Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* Log in as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* DNS record created.

.Procedure

> . Create an `IngressController` custom resource to set `dnsManagementPolicy`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create a custom `IngressController` resource to set `dnsManagementPolicy`:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
oc -n openshift-ingress-operator patch ingresscontrollers/<name> --type=merge --patch='{"spec":{"endpointPublishingStrategy":{"loadBalancer":{"dnsManagementPolicy":"Unmanaged"}}}}'

> ----

Reviewer 2: This attempts to modify an existing Ingress Controller, we don't need it under this section.

Author: can you share the oc command i need to add , to create

Reviewer 2: There is no direct way to create an Ingress Controller, you have to have a `yaml` for it that you `oc apply`. (which you have documented below)

Author: yes makes sense .

Author: I think instead we can say >> Create a CR file named sample.yaml that contains the following:

Reviewer 2: nit: `sample-ingress.yaml`

+
[NOTE]
====
Once you update `.spec.endpointPublishingStrategy.loadBalancer.dnsManagementPolicy` field to `Unmanaged`, the existing DNS record must denote the same using the `dnsManagementPolicy` field. You can either retain or delete the DNS record in the cloud provider.
If the domain on the Ingress Controller does not match with `dnsConfig.Spec.BaseDomain` , the policy is automatically set to `Unmanaged`.
====

+
.Sample Ingress Controller configuration
+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 2: This should be the main content for this section, so we can drop `Sample Ingress Controller configuration` and just keep the body.

Author: ok noted

----
apiVersion: operator.openshift.io/v1
kind: IngressController
metadata:
  namespace: openshift-ingress-operator
  name: <name> <1>
spec:
  domain: <domain> <2>
  endpointPublishingStrategy:
    type: LoadBalancerService
    loadBalancer:
      scope: External <3>
      dnsManagementPolicy: Unmanaged <4>
----

> <1> Replace `<name>` with a name for the `IngressController` object.

Reviewer 2: Please incorporate the changes suggested below for this section.

<2> Specify the `domain` for the application published by the controller.
<3> Specify a value of `External` to use an external load balancer.
<4> `dnsManagementPolicy` indicates if the Ingress Controller is managing the lifecycle of the wildcard DNS record associated with the load balancer.
By default , the value is `Managed`. The valid values are `Managed` and `Unmanaged`.

. Save the file to apply the changes.
+
[source,terminal]
----
oc apply -f <name>.yaml <1>
----

> . Optional: You can delete the associated DNS record in the cloud provider.

Reviewer 2: This is only applicable when modifying an Ingress Controller with `Managed` DNS management policy to `Unmanaged`. You can remove it.
